right let's bring in now Maran bishara
who is alzer's senior political analyst
and he joins us by Skype from Paris
Maran what do you make of the
developments at the G7 in terms of the
discussions of the war on
Gaza well meaningless is the word that
comes to mind absolutely and utterly
meaningless Once Upon a Time the G7 used
to stand for the seven Great the seven
giants they are the Democratic powers in
the world the rich
democracies now they stand for the seven
goofy grave even grotesque Powers when
it comes to the question of Gaza and
even to the question of Ukraine at some
point because now we have seven leaders
who are facing huge domestic problems at
home divided societies divided
polities um terribly
unpopular and at the same time they're
basically for all practical matter
pushing for a third world war with
Russia by this heavy Armament that they
continuously talk about this leaves very
little room for Gaza and hence every
time I hear any such communicate says
something about concerned I know it's
absolutely
meaningless uh as James was saying if
the displacement of 800,000 people
within 48 hours is not grave I don't
know what is grave if the killing of
hundreds of people every day is not
grave I don't know what is grave if that
is limited I don't know what is
unlimited so really uh the the other six
soall democracies are following in the
footsteps of the United States that's
dictating to them and to the rest of the
region their policies that have been for
eight months blocking any attempt at the
ceasefire and now have presented a non
ceasefire ceasefire proposal that will
probably and ultimately allow Israel to
uh carry on with the war after the
so-called phase one is over within few
weeks so there's nothing uh insightful
nothing of Interest nothing is
actionable coming out from the G7 and P
one we were just watching a press
briefing by the US president on the
sidelines of that G7 Summit and a
reporter did put a question to the
president about that ceasefire proposal
and that reporter asked whether Hamas
was working towards or indeed working
against the deal and President Joe Biden
appeared it appeared that he didn't want
to answer the question that that press
briefing was meant to be exclusively
about Ukraine but he did say that this
is is an approach that has been endorsed
by the UN Security Council by the G7 by
Israel and he described Hamas as being
the biggest hang up to any sort of
ceasefire what did you make of those
comments well you know they're a
repetition of more than the same you
have to admire American officials for
being on on point um they continuously
repeat more of the same like a broken
record but what they say is mostly half
truths or falsehoods
because we know for a fact uh for the
past so many what not 3 four weeks since
Biden first made his announcement or his
proposal public Israel have never
endorsed it in public we also know that
the Israelis have continued with the war
ever since um Biden made the
announcements killing thousands of
people displacing hundreds of thousands
and we also know um that Hamas has given
a positive resp response overall and
they had to highlight or amend a couple
of issues that is of uh terrible
importance to them but that of course is
dismissed by the United States because
the United States is not a credible
broker here the United States is party
to the war it has been complicit in
every possible way militarily
financially diplomatically with Israel
in the war it is not a third party per
se it is part and parcel of the Israeli
front against Gaza
so what the Americans are saying today
lacks credibility lacks any moral
standing in the world but what they do
have is a lot of power and a lot of
money and I think power and money uh
speak loudly more certainly more loudly
than principle and international law
especially when it comes to Palestine
when it comes to Ukraine you know they
keep talking about the principles of
this and that and other thing the fact
that Palestine has been occupied for
almost six decades that doesn't even
register on their screens that is our
senior political analyst Maran bishara
joining us live from Paris Maran thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz